Each town has a certain area around it called a district. This space is used for building supporting structures, which are listed below. Moving inside the district is usually safe, with the size of the district being determined by that Town's population - it can be seen by hovering the mouse over the town's icon on the world map.

Traits are fundamental for defining the culture and society of a Town - they start without any but can acquire multiple of them as they grow. Traits affect what types of projects the town can work on, what types of quests and treaties are available and possibly the types of events that will occur inside the district as the game progresses.

Each town will generate quests and treaties over time, influenced by its cultural traits. Quests will grant immediate rewards upon completion and also boost long-term reputation within that district, which you can eventually rise enough to redeem a treaty - which are rewards ranging from gold, to items, to new members for your party...

Towns are always working on one or more projects. Some of those labors are internal (such as Growth or Traits) but many are construction works which will unlock locations that can be interacted with. How many, what types of projects and how fast they are completed depend on the population and size of the town in question and its traits.

Once a structure starts building, it will be placed within the district's area as a construction site but won't be useful until enough work is put into it, which you can keep track of on the town's management screen. If a building is located inside the districts of two towns at once, it will usually benefit both of them, where applicable.

You can direct what projects a Town will be working on, under the town management screen but that's entirely optional. If left without orders, an automated governor will choose what labors to work on next, letting the player focus on exploration and combat instead.

If a town is captured by enemies, it will become hostile. It will still continue to work on projects independently but players won't be able to access quests, treaties or the management screen until they liberate that district. Hostile towns will also periodically generate incursions that will roam the world and capture other locations.

ALL DISTRICTS

Build dwelling: allows recruiting or hiring a single type of unit.

Build realm academy: offers varied upgrades, with each starting town offering its own unique set.

Build shop: crafts magic items for a fee.

Build traveller's lodge: a place to rest and recover for a small fee, can be upgraded to hotel (requires village) and hospital (requires town).

Cancel projects: immediately cancels all ongoing projects, discarding any progress.

Growth: grows the city population by 1, resulting in higher labor throughput and possibly increasing the district size, up to "city" size.

Redraw: when done, discards all available project options and draws new (doesn't affect ongoing projects).

Trait: adding a trait to a town will open up new project options, as seen below.

CRIMINAL DISTRICTS

Build assassins guild: an academy dedicated to the Infiltrate skill.

Build sewers: monsters will inhabit the sewers periodically, can be upgraded for tougher fights.

Build slums: slums buy and sell items depending on availabity and the district's population.

Build thieves guild: allows training and recruiting rogues.

CULTURAL DISTRICTS

Build artificer: forges and buys artifacts.

Build bards guild: offers training for bards.

Build mages guild: teaches spells from a certain school of magic or specialization.

Build summoning circle: teaches Summon Outsider spells.

ECOLOGICAL DISTRICT

Build archery range: allows you to train and recruit rangers.

Build henge: teaches Summon Animal spells, can be upgraded with each city rank.

Build mead hall: allows for training and recruiting barbarian units.

EXPANSIVE DISTRICTS

Build outpost: outposts greatly increase the vision range of your city.

Build highway: same as build road but with greater benefits and greater labor time, requires a town or city. 

Build road: creates a road between two towns, improving travel time and safety along the way.

Produce settler: reduces city population by 1 but adds a settler unit to a squad inside the district, which is able to build a new town elsewhere in the world map.

Build transport hub: allows leasing vehicles. Can be upgraded to docks (if near water) and ultimately to magical docks (anywhere).

MILITARY DISTRICTS

Build martial academy: teaches one of many possible sets of combat enhancements.

Build mercenaries guild: allows hiring unique heroes for a daily fee.

Build monastery: allows training and recruiting monks.

PRODUCTIVE DISTRICTS

Build mine: a mine allows units placed inside to mine gold and can be upgraded to mine rubies on its own.

Deforestate: converts a forest tile in the district into 50% extra labor (automatically adds a Growth project if there isn't another project to benefit from this).

RELIGIOUS DISTRICTS

Build shrine: casts divine rituals in return for a donation.

Build sanctuary: trains and offers clerics for hire. Can be upgraded to train paladins as well.
