Baned: -1 to attack rolls.

Blessed: +1 to attack rolls.

Burrowed: burrowed creatures receive +4 on armor class (not cumulative with defense, see below). A burrowed creature can only move or resurface and it is never considered engaged in battle.

Cover: to determine whether your target has cover from your ranged attack, choose a corner of your square. If any line from this corner to any corner of the target’s square passes through a square or border that blocks line of effect or provides cover, or through a square occupied by a creature, the target has cover (+4 to AC). 

Charge: charging is a special full-round action that allows you to move up to twice your speed and attack. You must move at least 10 feet (2 squares) and may move up to double your speed directly toward the designated opponent. You must have a clear path toward the opponent. After moving, you may make a single melee attack. You get a +2 bonus on the attack roll and take a -2 penalty to your AC until the start of your next turn.

Defending: +4 bonus to armor class (not cumulative with burrow).

Exhausted: moves at half speed and takes a -6 penalty to strength and dexterity.

Fatigued: can neither run nor charge and takes a -2 penalty to strength and dexterity.

Feigned: a creature who suffered a feint loses any dexterity bonus to it's armor class. 

Flanking: when making a melee attack, you get a +2 flanking bonus if your opponent is threatened by a character or creature friendly to you on the opponent’s opposite border or opposite corner. 

Flat-footed: a character who has not yet acted during a combat is flat-footed, not yet reacting normally to the situation. A flat-footed character loses his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any).

Grappled: two grappling units are immobilized and suffer a -2 penalty to armor class.

Knee-deep: a character standing on water has a -2 penalty to attack rolls and armor class. Entering a flooded square takes twice longer than normal terrain. A hero that can swim or fly acts normally.

Meld: in some battles if an unit is killed a crystal will form in it's position. This crystal grants a +2 bonus to AC and attacks and heals 20% hit  points to whoever grabs it. Additional crystals will improve the bonuses.

Poisoned: a poisoned unit has taken constitution damage and will receive secondary damage a little while after leaving combat. The constitution damage needs to be recovered by resting. 

Prone: a prone creature has -2 or +2 armor class against mêlée or ranged attacks and has to spend a move action to get up.

Raging: +2 strength and constitution, +1 will, -2 to armor class.

Shaken: receives -2 to attack rolls and saving throws.

Stunned: can’t take actions, takes a -2 penalty to armor class and loses dexterity bonus to armor class (if any).
