Each town has a certain area around it called a district. This space is used for building supporting structures around a town, which are listed below. Moving inside the district is usually safe. The actual size of a town's district is determined by that town's population and other factors and you can see it by hovering the mouse over the town in question.

Once a structure starts building, it will be placed in the district's area as a construction site but won't be useful until enough work is put into it, which you can follow on the town management screen. If a building is located inside the districts of two towns at once, it will usually benefit both of them where applicable.

Note that some of the labor options described below are not actual structures (like Grow and Produce settler) and hence have no "construction site" associated with them.

ALL DISTRICTS

Build dwelling: allows recruiting or hiring a single type of unit.

Build realm academy: offers varied upgrades, with each starting town offering its own unique set.

Build shop: crafts magic items for a fee.

Build traveller's lodge: a place to rest and recover for a small fee, can be upgraded to hotel (requires village) and hospital (requires town).

Cancel projects: immediately cancels all ongoing projects, discarding any progress.

Growth: grows the city population by 1, resulting in higher labor throughput and possibly increasing the district size, up to "city" size.

Redraw: when done, discards all available project options and draws new (doesn't affect ongoing projects).

Trait: adding a trait to a town will open up new project options, as seen below.

CRIMINAL DISTRICTS

Build assassins guild: an academy dedicated to the Infiltrate skill.

Build sewers: monsters will inhabit the sewers periodically, can be upgraded for tougher fights.

Build slums: slums buy and sell items depending on availabity and the district's population.

Build thieves guild: allows training and recruiting rogues.

CULTURAL DISTRICTS

Build artificer: forges and buys artifacts.

Build bards guild: offers training for bards.

Build mages guild: teaches spells from a certain school of magic or specialization.

Build summoning circle: teaches summon outsider spells.

ECOLOGICAL DISTRICT

Build archery range: allows you to train and recruit rangers.

Build henge: teaches summon animal spells, can be upgraded with each city rank.

Build mead hall: allows for training and recruiting barbarian units.

EXPANSIVE DISTRICTS

Build outpost: outposts greatly increase the vision range of your city.

Build highway: same as build road but with greater benefits and greater labor time, requires a town or city. 

Build road: creates a roas between two towns, improving travel time and safety along the way.

Produce settler: reduces city population by 1 but adds a settler unit to a squad inside the district which is able to build a new town elsewhere in the world map.

Build transport hub: allows leasing vehicles. Can be upgraded to docks (if near water) and ultimately to magical docks.

MILITARY DISTRICTS

Build martial academy: teaches one of a set of combat enhancements.

Build mercenaries guild: allows hiring heroes for a daily fee.

Build monastery: allows for training and recruiting of monks.

PRODUCTIVE DISTRICTS

Build mine: a mine allows you to mine gold and can be upgraded to automatically mine rubies.

Deforestate: converts a forest tile in the district into 50% extra labor, automatically adds a Growth project if there isn't another project to benefit from this.

RELIGIOUS DISTRICTS

Build shrine: casts divine rituals in return for a donation.

Build sanctuary: trains and offers clerics for hire. Can be upgraded to train paladins as well.
