HOW TO PLAY

Javelin is a complex game with simple rules. You can learn everything just by 
playing so go ahead and try! Don't be upset if something unexpected happens or 
you die, since it can be a difficult game, especially on the early levels and 
when you're just starting. This guide leaves a lot unexplained on purpose. 

You control a squad and do battle around the world. Towns have shops, let you 
rest to recover health and upgrade your units when they have enough experience 
points (XP). You can manage how towns grow or let the game do that for you.

Every time you start a new game a new world is generated! If you don't like the
world you're in you can press SHIFT+q to quit and start a new game. If you want
to keep your current progress and continue later on just close the game window.

There are several types of terrain in the game: plains and hills (easy), forest
(moderate), mountains and desert (hard) and marsh (very hard). When the game
starts you will probably want to stay very close to the nearest city and level
up your party once or twice before adventuring farther. If you're having 
trouble getting far on the map select faster starting units or bring workers
from towns to build roads and inns on your path.

Don't forget that fleeing is an option if a situation ever seems less than 
favorable! Press h in and out of battle for a list of all possible actions.
You can also press K to configure your command keys in and out of battle.   

A few nearby locations can help you at the start of the game:
 * Adventurers Guild: trade experience for starting character kits
 * Training Hall: lets you earn experience and feats in a safer environment
 * Temple of Haxor: allows you to do a variety of things during the entire game

Your objective is to beat your own highscore, which is recorded when the game 
ends. The end-goal is to vanquish all Temples and reap your reward with Haxor.
Good luck and have fun!

Check out these websites for more information:
 * javelinrl.wordpress.com  (news and updates)
 * reddit.com/r/javelinrl   (official game forum)
 * d20srd.org               (game rules)